.TH "portshare-devices" "5" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
portshare-devices \- tables for driving portshare-serial-client

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The portshare-devices file supplies all mapping between Unix device
files (/dev/*) and the addresses of serial ports of
Opengear Console Servers. It contains one entry for each serial
port, with the following format:

device:rastype:rasname:physport:type:options

Note: A # character at beginning of line indicates a comment

The entry fields are:

.TP 
.B devname
\- A full pathname of the file that will be associated to
the serial port. It must start with  a "/dev/" preffix.
Two naming schemes may be used here:
\- devname does not exist, and will be linked to
a free pseudo\-tty. This is the default behavior of
portshare-ser-cli.
\- devname is the name of a valid slave pseudo\-tty.
In this case, the '\-t 1' option must be assigned
in options field.
(Note: this option is not supported by this release).

.TP 
.B rastype
\- Console Server type:
\- cm4001, for Opengear CM4001 Console Servers.
\- cm4008, for Opengear CM4008 Console Servers.
\- cm4116, for Opengear CM4116 Console Servers.
\- cm4148, for Opengear CM4148 Console Servers.
\- sd4002, for Opengear SD4002 Console Servers.
\- sd4008, for Opengear SD4008 Console Servers.
\- im4208, for Opengear IM4208 Console Servers.
\- im4216, for Opengear IM4216 Console Servers.
\- im4248, for Opengear IM4248 Console Servers.
\- img4004, for Opengear IMG4004 Console Servers.
\- acm5002, for Opengear ACM5002 Console Servers.
\- acm5003, for Opengear ACM5003 Console Servers.
\- acm5004, for Opengear ACM5004 Console Servers.

.TP 
.B rasname
\- Host Name or IP Address of the Console Server where
the serial port resides.

.TP 
.B physport
\- Number of physical port in the Console Server. If
'physport' is  assigned to zero, 'rasname' will be
treated as the IP address associated with this port,
in a IP\-based addressing scheme.

.TP 
.B type	
\- Server type that will be contacted to handle the
serial port:
\- rfc2217, for RFC2217 serial support
\- rtelnet, for Remote Telnet Server
\- socket, for Raw TCP Socket Server

.TP 
.B options
\- Per\-port specific options, passed to portshare-ser-cli program.

.SH "Secure SSH connections"

To connect via a secure ssh tunnel, use the '-P' parameter as part
of "opts", and give the TCP port number used for the local end of
the tunnel.  e.g. "-P 22222" will attempt to connect to local TCP
port 22222. Also set the rasname to "localhost". Note: The ssh tunnel
must already be setup for this to work.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
1. Device on a CM4008 Console Server 192.168.0.1 Port 1, accessed
through /dev/otty01 device file name, using RFC2217 protocol.

/dev/otty01:cm4008:192.168.0.1:1:rfc2217:

2. Device on a CM4148 Console Server 192.168.0.2 Port 2, accessed
through /dev/otty02 device file name, using RFC2217 protocol

/dev/otty02:cm4148:192.168.0.2:2:rfc2217:

.SH "FILES"
/etc/portshare-devices	This file

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR portshare-serial-client (1),
.BR portshare-ser-cli (1)
