.TH "portshare-ser-cli" "8" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.BR portshare-ser-cli
Serial Port Interface for remote console servers

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B portshare-ser-cli
.I [options] devname rasname physport

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The portshare-ser-cli program connects a Unix device file 'devname' to a
physical port 'physport' of a remote console server 'rasname'.
portshare-ser-cli provides the I/O interface between the device file and
the physical port, running as an 'user\-mode device driver'.

If 'physport' is assigned to 0, then 'rasname' is used as the IP
address on an IP\-based serial port addressing.

.SH "OPTIONS"
portshare-ser-cli may be started with the following options:

.TP
.B \-u ptyiosize
Sets the internal device I/O size to ptyiosize (maximum 4096 bytes, default
1024 bytes)

.TP
.B \-n netiosize
Sets the internal socket I/O size to netiosize (maximum 512 bytes, default
128 bytes)

.TP
.B \-i retrydelay
Delay in seconds between connection requests (default: 60)

.TP
.B \-r retries
Number of connection request retries before exiting. (default: infinity)

.TP
.B \-s
Use the Socket Server protocol for talking to the server, this means just
piping all the data down a TCP connection with no control information, so it's
impossible to change the port speed etc.  The default is to use the RFC2217
protocol.

.TP
.B \-m modem handling
The default is 0 which means to check DCD state, 1 means to ignore DCD.

.TP
.B \-c close mode
Last close handling; the default is 0 which means to hangup the modem, 1 means
not to hangup.

.TP
.B \-p start port
TCP base port of servers at console server side (defaults: 5000 for RFC2217 Server).  Note: if 'physport' is assigned to
zero, this option has no effect, the Telnet Server standard port (23) is used.

.TP
.B \-d debug level
The default is debug level 0 (little debugging), level 1 debugs internal state
changes, level 2 debugs events, and level 3 debugs IO calls.

.TP
.B \-f
Run in foreground, this is suitable for running from init.

.TP
.B \-x
Console mode: normally all messages are sent to syslogd (using local2
facility). With this option, all messages will be sent to stdout and
portshare-ser-cli runs in the foreground.  This implies
.B \-f

.TP
.B \-P
Specify a TCP port to connect to. If this option is present, it will override most other options
in the /etc/portshare-devices file. portshare-ser-cli will use this TCP port instead of deriving
it from 
.B \-p
and 'physport'. This option is useful when connecting to a local TCP port,
which is connected to an ssh tunnel.

.SH "USE"
Every instance of portshare-ser-cli will have a virtual serial device which is
a sym-link to a pseudo-tty.  A terminal program can then talk to the virtual
serial device and it's data transfers will be redirected across the network.
Each virtual serial device will be accompanied by a Unix domain socket with
the same name with the addition of ".control".  So if portshare-ser-cli
provides the virtual device named "/dev/modem" then it will have a control
socket named "/dev/modem.control".  There is a shared object named
.B libportshare-ser-cli.so
which intercepts calls to the tcsetattr() and tcsendbreak().  This shared
object then sends the relevant data to the portshare-ser-cli server via the
control socket.  To recognise a virtual modem device it has to read
/etc/portshare-devices.

.P
The libportshare-ser-cli.so shared object can be loaded per-application
through the
.B LD_PRELOAD
environment variable, or for the entire system through the system shared
object configuration (see the OS documentation).  Note that the LD_PRELOAD
environment variable has to have the fully qualified path of the object,
otherwise an application which changes it's current directory may fail.

.SH "BUGS"

In Solaris libportshare-ser-cli.so does not work with the stty program.  stty
uses a different interface to this and requires some extra coding.

In Solaris libportshare-ser-cli.so conflicts with some system programs such as
.B ps
for unknown reasons.  Just don't load it for those programs, it has no such
problems with any serial comms programs.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Start an interface between /dev/prt1 device and a serial
port number 10 of a Console Server named pr01, without
hangup at last close:

portshare-ser-cli \-c 1 /dev/prt1 pr01 10

In general use do not start portshare-ser-cli from the command line, start it
through the portshare-serial-client script or from init.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR portshare-serial-client (1),
.BR portshare-devices (5)
