.TH "portshare-serial-client" "8" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.BR portshare-serial-client
Serial Port Interface for remote console servers

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B portshare-serial-client
.I (start | stop | restart | status) [devname]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
For each physical port listed in portshare-devices file,
portshare-serial-client controls the status of the corresponding
portshare-ser-cli interface.

.SH "OPTIONS"
portshare-serial-client must be invoked with one of the (start, stop, restart
or status), and optionaly with a argument associated to a specific device.
In this case, the action spedified as the option will be performed only for
this device.

If this argument was not supplied, the action will be performed for all
devices listed in portshare-devices file. The mandatory options are:

.TP 
.B start
\- Starts the portshare-ser-cli program, using parameters supplied
in the portshare-devices  file. If this program is already
running, a message will be displayed, and no additional copy
will be started.

.TP 
.B stop
\- Stops the portshare-ser-cli program(s), by issuing a SIGTERM signal.

.TP 
.B restart
\- Simulates a hangup to portshare-ser-cli program(s), by issuing a SIGUSR1
signal.

.TP 
.B status
\- Checks the status of portshare-ser-cli programs(s).


.SH "EXAMPLES"
Assuming the the following portshare-devices file configuration:

/dev/ctty01:pr3k:1:rtelnet:
/dev/ctty02:pr3k:2:socket:

1 . Start all devices:
portshare-serial-client start
Messages:
"Starting /dev/ctty01 <==> pr3k:1 interface"
"Starting /dev/ctty02 <==> pr3k:2 interface"

2 . Try to start them again:
portshare-serial-client start
Messages:
"portshare-serial-client : /dev/ctty01 already active"
"portshare-serial-client : /dev/ctty02 already active"

3 . Stop only /dev/ctty01 device:
portshare-serial-client stop /dev/ctty01
Messages:
"Stopping /dev/ctty01 <==> pr3k:2 interface"

4 . Checking status:
portshare-serial-client status
Messages:
"/dev/ctty01 (rtelnet at pr3k:1) is inactive"
"/dev/ctty02 ( socket at pr3k:2) active, pid 2983"

5 . Start a non\-valid device
portshare-serial-client start /dev/xtty01
Messages:
"portshare-serial-client : device /dev/xtty01 does not exist"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR portshare-ser-cli (1),
.BR portshare-devices (5)
